[Handles] Design Doc (#1225)
LibertyDSNP/frequency: designdocs/user-handles.md

> # Frequency User Handles

Author: Focus on this doc

# Frequency User Handles Registry

## Context and Scope

> The Frequency blockchain aims to provide a mechanism to register and retrieve user handles on chain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Frequency blockchain aims to provide a mechanism to register and retrieve user handles on chain to make it easier to use MSA Ids.
```

> To achieve this, we propose the creation of a user handle ```registry``` system on frequency chain, coupled with ```MessageSourceAccount```, that allows users to choose a unique handle and select a suffix from a set of options allowed by the chain. The user handle system will also enforce guidelines to ensure that handles are user-friendly and easy to remember, as well as prevent misuse and abuse.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To achieve this, we propose the creation of a user handle ```registry``` system on frequency chain, coupled with ```MessageSourceAccount```, that allows users to choose a handle and select a suffix from a set of options allowed by the chain that together are unique.
The user handle system will also enforce guidelines to ensure that handles are user-friendly and easy to remember, as well as prevent misuse and abuse.
```

The goal of this proposal is to enable users to create unique handles on the Frequency blockchain using a registry, making it more accessible for users to engage with the network.

## Assumptions

* ```MessageSourceAccount``` exists for a user to create a handle.
* It is optional for a user to create a handle.
* Handles are unique and has a 1:1 mapping with ```MessageSourceAccount```.
* Governance will define the range of suffixes allowed for a given handle.
* Governance will define the time period a handle must be retired before it can be reused.

## Requirements

The high level requirements for user handles are:

* Support user ability to choose any valid handle and select a suffix from a set of options allowed by the chain.
* Ensure handles and suffixes are unique and non-conflicting.

> * Make the system resistant to namespace exhaustion, homoglyphs and race conditions.

Reviewer: One more thing. Reduce the likelihood of a secondary market for handles.

* User handles cannot contain the following substrings (or homoglyphs): @, #, :, ., ```
* User handles cannot be (@admin, @everyone, @all) *blocklist of handles we reserve
* Suffixes are u32 limited to a range defined by governance
* Suffix will be randomly constrained.
* Homoglyph versions of handles should still resolve to the same MSA.
* After a handle is released, it cannot be reused by a time block set by governance.

### General Steps

* Query the chain for the current seed value.
* Hash the seed with the user desired handle base.
* Apply the resulting value as the seed to the specified PRNG.
* Generate the next 10/20 ```u32``` values from the PRNG these are the possible suffixes within the range of suffixes allowed by the chain.
* Query the chain to check which values are available, check if the handle with the suffix is available.
* Choose an available value and attempt to claim it by submitting the full handle with the suffix to the chain.
* Chain validates the handle and suffix and maps the handle to the ```msa_id```.
* Chain maintains a reverse mapping from handle to msa for offchain use.

### Chain Steps

> * Every 100 blocks (e.g., when block_number % 100 == 1), update the current seed by taking the Merkle root of the previous block. Keep the current and one previous seed so that two seeds, s0 and s1, are part of the chain state at any given time.

Reviewer: Curious why mod(100) == 1 instead of 0. Is that because we have a lot of things that already happen on those blocks?

Author: he reason for choosing mod(100) == 1 instead of mod(100) == 0 is to avoid conflicts with any other system events that may be happening on mod(100) == 0. 

Subject to change: this is what i inferred from Wess' proposal

Reviewer 2: There is already a frame for that https://github.com/paritytech/substrate/tree/master/frame/insecure-randomness-collective-flip this is not a secure random just as they mention it.

Reviewer 2: If seed is not random, the values generated using that seed is also not considered random but it might be fine for our usecase

Author: For our use case, we can rely on the network effect for the randomness of the seed. As long as we keep track of both seed-prev and seed-current at any given moment, we can ensure that the range of values generated using the seed will be different.

Author: Let me add the details on seed computation from Wess's proposal

Author: Added a spike for the same, either use msa_id or some variant of it as seed or use chain for the random seed

Author: #1250

Author: #1250 , we will probably be spiking on seed and PRNG

There is an exceedingly small chance that two users may attempt to claim the same handle and suffix combination within the same block. In such cases, the transaction will fail to create the MSA, and the app will receive a failure for the transaction rather than the expected MsaHandleCreated event.

## Sequence Diagram

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant Wallet
    actor User
    participant App
    participant RPC as RPC Node
    participant Chain as Frequency
    User->>App: Enter desired handle
    App->>RPC: get_suffix_options(handle)
    RPC->>Chain: Query current seed
    Chain-->>RPC: Return seed
    RPC->>RPC: Compute suffix options
    RPC->>Chain: check_handle_availability(options)
    Chain-->>RPC: Return subset of options
    RPC-->>App: Return subset of options
    App->>User: Present suffix options
    User->>App: Choose desired suffix
    App->>Wallet: Send signup data
    Wallet->>Wallet: Perform 2FA if first attempt
    Wallet-->>App: Return signed payload
    App->>RPC: create_msa_handle(..., handle, suffix)*
    RPC->>Chain: Submit transaction
    Chain->>Chain: Check validity and availability
    Chain-->>App: MsaHandleCreated event with handle

>     App-->>RPC: Publish Profile Announcement/batch with (canonical) DSNP handle

Reviewer: I think we will want to skip this for simplicity.
```suggestion
```

    App->>User: Proceed with setup
    User->>App: Request to get MSA ID for handle
    App->>RPC: get_msa_id_for_handle(handle)
    RPC->>Chain: Query handle mapping state (State Query MSA<->Handle)
    Chain-->>RPC: Return handle mapping state (State Query MSA<->Handle)
    RPC-->>App: Return MSA ID for handle
    User->>App: Request to get handle for MSA ID
    App->>RPC: get_handle_for_msa_id(msa_id)
    RPC->>Chain: Query MSA ID mapping state (Reverse Index Handle<->MSA)
    Chain-->>RPC: Return MSA ID mapping state (Reverse Index Handle<->MSA)
    RPC-->>App: Return handle for MSA ID
```

## Storage

* **HandleSuffixMin**: This storage value (```u32``) will keep track of the minimum suffix value allowed for a given handle.
* **HandleSuffixMax**: This storage value (```u32``) will keep track of the maximum suffix value allowed for a given handle.
* **HandleRetirementPeriod**: This storage value (```u32``) will keep track of the number of blocks a handle must be retired before it can be reused.

> * **MSAIdToUserHandle**: This storage will map MSAIds to their corresponding user handles.

Reviewer: Side note: Remember that this one should map to the "actual" user handle. Aka before any homoglyph replacement.

> * **UserHandlesToMSAId**: This storage will map user handles to their corresponding MSAIds.

Reviewer: Side note. While this is correct, I think we would want to store the key of `UserHandlesToMSAId` as either the reduced handle (aka post homoglyph replacement) or the hash of the reduced handle.

> * **RetiredHandles**: This storage will keep track of all retired handles and the block number at which they were retired. This probably is a spike to run few ideas on how to implement this.

Reviewer: Idea: We could store this in the `UserHandlesToMSAId` data as "retired" with the block number it retired on. (That way it is merely waiting for `current_block > (retire_block + HandleRetirementPeriod)`)

Author: Cool added both to the notes for reference

> * **UsedSuffixes**: This storage will keep track of all used suffixes to ensure that no two handles have the same suffix. (May not be necessary)

Reviewer: > May not be necessary

Agreed. We should just consider it part of the handle storage

* **Seed (current and previous)**: This storage values (```tuple (s0, s1)```) will keep track of the current and previous seed values.

## Required Extrinsics

### Primitives

``` rust

> MsaHandlePayload {

Reviewer: Do we need to put in an additional mortality even if the suffix has an effective mortality?

Author: Hmm good point, I was expecting handles to have a permanence with msa unless specifically retired or revoke?

    handle: &[u8],
    suffix: u32,

>     msa_id: u64,

Reviewer: We can derive the MSA Id from the signing key. (You can only create a handle for your own MSA, and keys can only be attached to one MSA at a time)

}
```

### Create user handle with chosen suffix

 As a network frequency should allow users to choose their own handle and suffix. This extrinsic will allow users to create a handle with a chosen suffix.

``` rust
Input

* origin - must be a signed origin

> * owner msa id - the MSA ID of the user. MSA ID must be created before calling this extrinsic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* owner key for the msa id - one of the owner keys for the MSA Id of the user. MSA Id must be created before calling this extrinsic.
```

> * proof - the proof of ownership of the handle, ```MsaHandlePayload``` signed by the user/provider private key

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* proof - the proof of ownership of the handle, ```MsaHandlePayload``` signed by an msa owner's private key
```

Output
* Event - `MsaHandleCreated` with the MSA ID and the handle

* Errors - 
    * `HandleAlreadyExists` if the handle already exists
    * `InvalidMsaHandle` if the handle is invalid
    * `Unauthorized` if the signature is invalid
    * `InvalidSuffix` if the suffix is invalid

>     * `SuffixAlreadyExists` if the suffix already exists

Reviewer: I don't think `SuffixAlreadyExists` is a needed error. We can just say handle not available to refer to the handle+suffix.

Author: Yep not needed now, however since we are doing optional suffix, what if someone uses extrinsic to claim some handle and suffix without checking if that suffix will be available or not

So not sure if its useful to send an error stating exactly same, but yes user can always check range of allowed suffixes.

Validation requirements
* handle must follow handle guidelines.
* suffix must be in the range of the handle.
* handle must be unique.
* handle must be available.
* suffix must be available.
* MSA ID must exist.

Signature requirements

> The extrinsic must be signed by the user/provider private key. The signature must be verified on-chain to ensure that the user is the owner of the private key.

Reviewer: Side note, but a reminder that as this does not have a general replay issue, it does NOT need to be added into the signature registry to protect against replay.

Author: Totally 👍

```

### Retire user handle

As a network frequency should allow users to retire their handles. This extrinsic will allow users to retire their handles. Retired handles will be available for reuse after a time period set by governance.

``` rust
Input

* origin - must be a signed origin
* owner msa id - the MSA ID of the user. MSA ID must be created before calling this extrinsic.

> * proof_of_ownership - the proof of ownership of the handle to be retired, ```MsaHandlePayload``` signed by the user/provider private key

Reviewer: If we were ok with making retiring a `Pays::No` transaction (I'm thinking yes?), the we could skip both `owner msa id` and `proof_of_ownership`.

If not, this should be `owner_key`, `proof_of_ownership`.

Author: Will ad it to notes in extrinsic to remember during story creation

Output

* Event - `MsaHandleRetired` with the handle

* Errors - 
    * `HandleDoesNotExist` if the handle does not exist
    * `Unauthorized` if the signature is invalid

Signature requirements

The extrinsic must be signed by the user/provider private key. The signature must be verified on-chain to ensure that the user is the owner of the private key.
```

### Change handle

As a network frequency should allow users to change their handles. This extrinsic will allow users to change their handles. Retired handles will be available for reuse after a time period set by governance.

``` rust
Input
* origin - must be a signed origin

> * owner msa ID - the MSA ID of the user

Reviewer: Swap to owner_key

> * proof_of_ownership - the proof of ownership of the handle to be changed, ```MsaHandlePayload``` signed by the user/provider private key

Reviewer: I don't think we need proof of current ownership as the `proof_of_new_ownership` provides the validation that this is requested by the MSA owner.

* **HandleSuffixMax**: This storage value (```u32``) will keep track of the maximum suffix value allowed for a given handle.
* **HandleRetirementPeriod**: This storage value (```u32``) will keep track of the number of blocks a handle must be retired before it can be reused.
* **MSAIdToUserHandle**: This storage will map MSAIds to their corresponding user handles.
* **UserHandlesToMSAId**: This storage will map user handles to their corresponding MSAIds.
* **RetiredHandles**: This storage will keep track of all retired handles and the block number at which they were retired. This probably is a spike to run few ideas on how to implement this.
* **UsedSuffixes**: This storage will keep track of all used suffixes to ensure that no two handles have the same suffix. (May not be necessary)
* **Seed (current and previous)**: This storage values (```tuple (s0, s1)```) will keep track of the current and previous seed values.

**Note:** The handle being mapped to MSA ID is the handle with the suffix i.e. full handle.

## Required Extrinsics

### Primitives

``` rust

MsaHandlePayload {
    handle: &[u8],
    suffix: Option<u32>,
}
```

> ### Create user handle with chosen handle and optional suffix

Reviewer: We should mention somewhere that `create`, and `change` (and `retire` depending on if it is Pays::No) should be Capacity possible transactions.

Reviewer 3: Making these Capacity transactions might incentive providers to create MSA ids and handles. These could then be resold and create a market for them. However, given that we do not have any punishment system, we put too much trust in providers not to exploit.

Author: Added notes and assumption for the same , thanks

* User handles cannot contain the following substrings (or homoglyphs): @, #, :, ., ```
* User handles cannot be (@admin, @everyone, @all) *blocklist of handles we reserve
* Suffixes are u32 limited to a range defined by governance
* Suffix will be randomly constrained.
* Homoglyph versions of handles should still resolve to the same MSA.
* After a handle is released, it cannot be reused by a time block set by governance.

### General Steps

* Query the chain for the current seed value.
* Hash the seed with the user desired handle base.
* Apply the resulting value as the seed to the specified PRNG.
* Generate the next 10/20 ```u32``` values from the PRNG these are the possible suffixes within the range of suffixes allowed by the chain.
* Query the chain to check which values are available, check if the handle with the suffix is available.
* Choose an available value and attempt to claim it by submitting the full handle with the suffix to the chain.
* Chain validates the handle and suffix and maps the handle to the ```msa_id```.
* Chain maintains a reverse mapping from handle to msa for offchain use.

### Chain Steps

> * Every 100 blocks (e.g., when block_number % 100 == 1), update the current seed by taking the Merkle root of the previous block. Keep the current and one previous seed so that two seeds, s0 and s1, are part of the chain state at any given time.

Reviewer 4: It sounds as if we need to calculate the Merkle root when it's actually just the hash of the previous block.  Correct?

    RPC->>RPC: Compute suffix options
    RPC->>Chain: check_handle_availability(options)
    Chain-->>RPC: Return subset of options
    RPC-->>App: Return subset of options
    App->>User: Present suffix options
    User->>App: Choose desired suffix
    App->>Wallet: Send signup data
    Wallet->>Wallet: Perform 2FA if first attempt
    Wallet-->>App: Return signed payload
    App->>RPC: create_msa_handle(..., handle, suffix)*
    RPC->>Chain: Submit transaction
    Chain->>Chain: Check validity and availability
    Chain-->>App: MsaHandleCreated event with handle
    App->>User: Proceed with setup
    User->>App: Request to get MSA ID for handle
    App->>RPC: get_msa_id_for_handle(handle)
    RPC->>Chain: Query handle mapping state (State Query MSA<->Handle)
    Chain-->>RPC: Return handle mapping state (State Query MSA<->Handle)
    RPC-->>App: Return MSA ID for handle
    User->>App: Request to get handle for MSA ID
    App->>RPC: get_handle_for_msa_id(msa_id)
    RPC->>Chain: Query MSA ID mapping state (Reverse Index Handle<->MSA)
    Chain-->>RPC: Return MSA ID mapping state (Reverse Index Handle<->MSA)
    RPC-->>App: Return handle for MSA ID
```

## Storage

> * **HandleSuffixMin**: This storage value (```u32``) will keep track of the minimum suffix value allowed for a given handle.

Reviewer 4: Do suffixes (used to distinguish accounts with same base handle) really need to be as large as 4294967295 (u32)? or can they be 65535 (u16)?

Reviewer 4: I see.  There are ~294,282 Zhang Wei and ~44,935 John Smiths.

Author: We can decide of types but in general the window of min max suffix range will move around in that space

```

### Retire user handle

As a network frequency should allow users to retire their handles. This extrinsic will allow users to retire their handles. Retired handles will be available for reuse after a time period set by governance.

``` rust
Input

* origin - must be a signed origin
* owner_key - the public key of the user/provider. This is used to verify the signature and resolve the MSA ID.
* proof_of_ownership - the proof of ownership of the handle to be retired, ```MsaHandlePayload``` signed by the user/provider private key

Output

* Event - `MsaHandleRetired` with the handle

* Errors - 
    * `HandleDoesNotExist` if the handle does not exist
    * `Unauthorized` if the signature is invalid

Validation requirements
* MSA ID must exist. Signing keys must resolve to MSA ID.
* handle must exist and be owned by the MSA ID.

Signature requirements

The extrinsic must be signed by the user/provider private key. The signature must be verified on-chain to ensure that the user is the owner of the private key.
```

**Note:** If retiring a ```Pays::No transaction```? then, we could skip both owner_key and proof_of_ownership.

### Change handle

> As a network frequency should allow users to change their handles. This extrinsic will allow users to change their handles. Retired handles will be available for reuse after a time period set by governance.

Reviewer 4: How often can a user change their handle?  e.g.  total number of times or elapsed time since last change.  It seems that there should be some limits set by governance.

Reviewer 3: why?

Reviewer: Hmm... If someone can continuously change their handle, they could lock up a large number of the common handles.

However suffixes make that a lot harder to do.

It still costs (Capacity) for each new handle or change.

# Frequency User Handles Registry

## Context and Scope

The Frequency blockchain aims to provide a mechanism to register and retrieve user handles on chain to make it easier to use MSA Ids.

> To achieve this, we propose the creation of a user handle ```registry``` system on frequency chain, coupled with ```MessageSourceAccount```, that allows users to choose a handle and select a suffix from a set of options allowed by the chain that together are unique.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
To achieve this, we propose the creation of a user handle ```registry``` system on the Frequency chain, coupled with ```MessageSourceAccount```, that allows users to choose a handle and select a suffix from a set of options allowed by the chain that together are unique.
```

Reviewer 5: Or.. 
`To achieve this, we propose the creation of a user handle ```registry``` system on chain`

Reviewer: Style guide note. Just "Frequency", not "the" Frequency.

Author: :+1:

The user handle system will also enforce guidelines to ensure that handles are user-friendly and easy to remember, as well as prevent misuse and abuse.

> The goal of this proposal is to enable users to create unique handles on the Frequency blockchain using a registry, making it more accessible for users to engage with the network.

Reviewer: Correct. The other options outside the chain were not able to meet the needed goals. :(

## Assumptions

* ```MessageSourceAccount``` exists for a user to create a handle.
* It is optional for a user to create a handle.

> * Handles are unique and has a 1:1 mapping with ```MessageSourceAccount```.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* Handles are unique and have a 1:1 mapping with ```MessageSourceAccount```.
```

* Governance will define the range of suffixes allowed for a given handle.
* Governance will define the time period a handle must be retired before it can be reused.

## Requirements

The high level requirements for user handles are:

* Support user ability to choose any valid handle and select a suffix from a set of options allowed by the chain.
* Ensure handles and suffixes are unique and non-conflicting.
* Make the system resistant to namespace exhaustion, homoglyphs and race conditions.
* Make the system easy to use and integrate with existing UI and wallet systems.
* Reduce the likelihood of abuse and misuse of the system for example secondary market trading of handles.

## Proposal

User handle ```registry``` on frequency chain.

### Handle Guidelines

* User handles must be unique and each msa can only be be mapped to one handle.
* User handles must be between 2 and 32 characters (32b limit) long.

> * User handles cannot contain the following substrings (or homoglyphs): @, #, :, ., ```

Reviewer 3: Are we thinking of following http://unicode.org/reports/tr46/ similar to ENS?

https://docs.ens.domains/contract-api-reference/name-processing

* User handles cannot be (@admin, @everyone, @all) *blocklist of handles we reserve
* Suffixes are u32 limited to a range defined by governance

> * Suffix will be randomly constrained.

Author: basically we will have SuffixMin and SuffixMax range which can be altered by governance, 
now that will give control over which range of suffixes will need to exhaust first before window is stretched, shrinked or moved around the space

We are using going to use seed for PRNG and constraint the returned suffix in defined window range

* Apply the resulting value as the seed to the specified PRNG.
* Generate the next 10/20 ```u32``` values from the PRNG these are the possible suffixes within the range of suffixes allowed by the chain.
* Query the chain to check which values are available, check if the handle with the suffix is available.
* Choose an available value and attempt to claim it by submitting the full handle with the suffix to the chain.
* Chain validates the handle and suffix and maps the handle to the ```msa_id```.
* Chain maintains a reverse mapping from handle to msa for offchain use.

### Chain Steps

* Every 100 blocks (e.g., when block_number % 100 == 1), update the current seed by taking the Merkle root of the previous block. Keep the current and one previous seed so that two seeds, s0 and s1, are part of the chain state at any given time.
* Provide an RPC to get the current seed.
* Provide an RPC to get the suffix options for a given handle.
* When a user submits a handle, check the numeric suffix for availability and that it honors range defined for suffix window.
* Store ```msa_id``` to ```handle``` mapping and ```handle``` to ```msa_id``` mapping.

### Handling Race Conditions

> There is an exceedingly small chance that two users may attempt to claim the same handle and suffix combination within the same block. In such cases, the transaction will fail to create the MSA, and the app will receive a failure for the transaction rather than the expected MsaHandleCreated event.

Reviewer 3: If the transaction fails who pays for the fee?

* owner_key - the public key of the user/provider. This is used to verify the signature and resolve the MSA ID.
* proof_of_new_ownership - the proof of ownership of the new handle, ```MsaHandlePayload``` signed by the user/provider private key

Output
* Event - `MsaHandleChanged` with the old handle and the new handle
* Errors - 
    * `HandleDoesNotExist` if the handle does not exist
    * `Unauthorized` if the signature(s) is invalid
    * `InvalidMsaHandle` if the handle is invalid

Validation requirements
* MSA ID must exist. Signing keys must resolve to MSA ID.
* old handle must exist and be owned by the MSA ID.
* new handle must follow handle guidelines.
* new handle must be unique.
* new handle must be available.
* new suffix must be available.
* new suffix must be in the range of the handle.

Signature requirements

The extrinsic must be signed by the user private key. The signature must be verified on-chain to ensure that the user is the owner of the private key. The signature must also include the old handle and the new handle to prevent unauthorized handle changes.
```

**Note** :

* Change handle should also retire the old handle and suffix.

> * These are possible extrinsics and inputs required for the handle feature. The exact extrinsics and inputs may change based on the implementation.

Reviewer 3: What about transferring ownership?

Reviewer: Not sure if it got added to the list, but one of the design goals is that we do not have a secondary market for handles. So a explicit transfer is not possible intentionally.

Reviewer 3: Can we prevent this from happening? I can create accounts with handles associated with them and sell the MSA.

Author: Name squatting is hard to prevent but since we have suffixes and a window to control what range of suffixes are being allowed by chain so that takes care of things like TM/Squating etc to some degree.

However, now with updated path, we are not moving the burden of choosing suffixes to user but rather going to put any randomly available suffix to desired user handle

Full Handle can be retired and left to be picked when it becomes available again
